# OSBS-Box

An OpenShift based project that provides a local environment for testing OSBS components.

Currently, this environment is not yet complete (except for the Koji part).


## How-to

OSBS-Box is primarily intended for use with OpenShift clusters created using `oc cluster up`.

Setting one up should be as simple as:

```bash
$ dnf install origin-clients
$ oc cluster up
```

For more details, refer to
[the OKD documentation](https://docs.okd.io/latest/getting_started/administrators.html#running-in-a-docker-container).


### Prerequisites

* ansible
* an OpenShift cluster, as described above


### Deploying OSBS-Box

1. If you haven't already, `git clone` this repository
2. Take a look at the [configuration file](group_vars/all.yaml)
3. Run `ansible-playbook generate-certs.yaml`
4. Run `ansible-playbook deploy.yaml`

__NOTE__: Rather than changing the configuration in __group_vars/all.yaml__, you might want to
create a file containing your overrides (e.g. __overrides.yaml__) and run the playbooks like this:

```bash
$ ansible-playbook <playbook> -e '@overrides.yaml'
```

__NOTE__: The __deploy.yaml__ playbook only starts the build, it does not wait for the entire
deployment to finish. You can check the deployment status in the web console or with `oc status`.


### Using OSBS-Box

During deployment, the OpenShift user specified in [group\_vars/all.yaml](group_vars/all.yaml) will
be given cluster admin privileges. This is the user you are going to want to log in as from the
web console / CLI.

#### OpenShift console

Located at https://localhost:8443/console/ by default.

After navigating to the koji project, you will see all the koji pods, you can view their logs,
open terminals in them etc.

#### OpenShift CLI

Generally, anything you can do in the console, you can do with `oc`.  Just make sure you are in
the right project.

To run a command in a container from the command line (for example, `koji hello` on the client):

```bash
$ oc rsh dc/koji-client koji hello  # dc is short for deploymentconfig
$ oc -n koji rsh dc/koji-client koji hello  # From a project other than koji
```

Use `oc rsh <pod name>` or `oc rsh <pod name> bash` to open a remote shell in the specified pod.

#### Koji website

The koji-hub OpenShift app provides an external route where you can access the koji website.
You can find the URL in the console or with `oc get route koji-hub`. Here, you can view
information about your Koji instance.

To log in to the website, you will first need to import a client certificate into your browser.
These certificates are generated by the __generate-certs.yaml__ playbook and can be found in
the koji certificates directory (__~/.local/share/osbs-box/koji-certs/final/__ by default).
There is one for each koji user (by default, only _kojiadmin_ and _kojiosbs_ are users, but
logging in creates a user automatically).

#### Koji CLI (local)

Coming soon<sup>TM</sup>


### Updating OSBS-Box

In general, there are two reasons why you might want to update your OSBS-Box instance:

* Changes in OSBS-Box itself
* Changes in other OSBS components

In both cases, what you want to do is:

1. Specify your overrides in a file
    * e.g. __repo__, __branch__ for the OSBS components you want to test
2. Run the __deploy.yaml__ playbook with your overrides
    * __NOTE__: you do not need to run the __generate-certs.yaml__ playbook unless they are
      expired, but if you do run it, you will need to reimport them into your browser

__NOTE__: When working on OSBS-Box code, to test changes concerning any of the pieces used to
build Docker images, you will need to __push the changes first__ before running the playbook,
because OpenShift gets the code for builds from git. Alternatively, instead of using the playbook,
you can just `oc start-build <the component you changed> --from-dir .`.


### Cleaning up

There are multiple reasons why you might want to clean up OSBS-Box data:

* You've done some koji setup, but now you need to undo it
* For some reason, updating your OSBS-Box failed (and it is not because of the code)
* You are done with OSBS-Box (forever)

OSBS-Box provides the __cleanup.yaml__ playbook, which does parts of the cleanup for you based
on what `--tags` you specify. In addition to tags corresponding to those in __deploy.yaml__,
there are extra tags (not run by default) related to local data:

* `openshift_files`: OpenShift files (templates, configs) created during deployment
* `koji_certs`: certificates created by __generate_certs.yaml__
* `pvs`: _all of the below, uses `sudo` (run playbook with `--ask-become-pass`)_
    * `registry_pv`: PV for the docker registry container
    * `koji_pvs`: _all of the below_
        * `koji_db_pv`: koji database PV
        * `koji_files_pv`: PV used by koji-hub and koji-builder for __/mnt/koji/__

When you run the playbook without any tags, all OSBS-Box OpenShift namespaces are deleted, this
also kills the containers running in them. All other data is kept, including persistent volume
directories. If you need to reset your instance to a clean state, you will likely want to use
the `pvs` tag. To get rid of everything, use `everything`.

You may also want to:

* Remove the docker images built/pulled by OpenShift
    * You will find them in your local registry, like normal docker images
* Run `oc cluster down` and remove the data left behind by `oc cluster up`
    * Volumes that were mounted by OpenShift and never unmounted
      ```bash
      $ mount | grep openshift | while read mountpoint; do sudo umount $mountpoint; done
      ```
    * The __openshift.local.clusterup/__ directory created when you ran `oc cluster up`
      (or whatever you passed as the `--base-dir` param to `oc cluster up`)


## Project structure

Coming soon<sup>TM</sup>


## Known issues

### Koji website login bug

__Problem__:

```
An error has occurred in the web interface code. This could be due to a bug or a configuration issue.
koji.AuthError: could not get user for principal: <user>
```

__Reproduce__:

1. Log in to the koji website as a user that is neither _kojiadmin_ nor _kojiosbs_
2. Bring koji down without logging out of the website
3. Remove koji database persistent data
4. Bring koji back up, go to the website
5. Congratulations, koji now thinks a non-existent user is logged in

__Solution__: clear cookies, reload website
